---
layout: post
title: "Fate"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

*I'm Jesse Pollak, a rising sophomore at [Pomona College](http://pomona.edu). This summer, I'm a [hackNY](http://hackny.org) Fellow and technical intern at [BuzzFeed](http://buzzfeed.com). To assist in my learning process, I've decided to write a blog post every day: today is day 38. You can [follow me on twitter](http://twitter.com/jessepollak) or keep reading my [blog](http://jessepollak.me).*

A couple of minutes ago, I was messing around with some of the other hackNY fellows on random anonymous video chat services—omegle being the one we eventually turned to (our dorm public IP was banned from ChatRoulette...). While on the site, we ran into someone who was exactly 1 degree of separation from me. We lived in the same city; we had mutual friends; and, she went to a nearby school. While this in itself wasn't that exciting (or fateful), it got me thinking about how often random acts of fate seem to bring people together at the right time.

A week before AngelHack, I didn't know whether I was going to participate, let alone what my team would be. I was exhausted from the weekend before and doing a 36 hour hackathon seemed a little overwhelming. On the Monday before, Brennen, a friend from college and my eventual teammate, texted me asking whether we were going to be on the same team. I had convinced him to participate, so with this push I decided I had to do it. Still, we had no team and no direction.

Tuesday, I wrote a blog post that hit the top of Hacker News. In the next 12 hours, I got 50+ emails and a ton of new twitter followers. I responded to everyone and 3 of them ended up living in NY. I asked each if they were doing AngelHack: two were, one wanted to but didn't have a ticket.

Wednesday, I convinced Cheryl, the hackNY fellow I'd worked with the weekend before, to do AngelHack and we managed to get her a ticket. Then, the one HNer who didn't have a ticket found one and said he wanted to work with us (Conway). And, Jordan, one of the other 2 HNers wrote me an email saying that he'd love to work with us.

Thursday, we all met for the first time and couldn't think up an idea. Friday after lunch, I checked my phone and found 56 new emails—I knew we'd struck gold.

Saturday we hacked, Sunday we won.

As we were walking home on Sunday night, Conway turned to me and started explaining how he often got intense deja vú when big events were about to occur. He'd been feeling it all week.

From no team to a winning team in a week. From complete strangers (not quite, but close enough), to great friends in 3 days. From no idea to one we've committed our foreseeable futures to in one day.

Looking at it all, it really feels like fate—I guess the next few weeks will tell.